---
layout: post
title: Week 6
---

# HFOSS Reflection and Evaluation

## Reflection on HFOSS 

I have always been intrigued by software projects with a social element in mind because they bring technology to the communities that actually need them. Open source projects for social good takes that one step further. Having grown up in a developing country, I realize the impact that such projects can have on the quality of life of people and communities. Disaster struck communities or those that live below the poverty line can greatly benefit from access to technology. However, sometimes such projects are percieved as trivial and less presitigous to contribute to because they're not the ones that have traditionally been turned into unicorns or billion-dollar-startups and are less predictable in terms of developing a business model around them. In fact, given the nature of these projects, it seems as though they might have to solely rely on external capital and funding. Yet, such projects might be technically some of the harder ones to get involved in and contribute to. Often, humanitarian projects are aimed at communities that may not have the technological infrastructure that other projects have and therefore the architectural challenges are at a completely different scale. Moreover, depending on the nature of the project, the stakes may also be very high and so involvement could get harder. These projects however, pose some of the more exciting problems to tackle and because the impact of one's work is highly visible, they are also some of the more rewarding ones. I would defintely consider being involved in HFOSS projects sometime in the future. 





