---
layout: post
title: Week 1
---

## What is open source and favorite projects

### Open Source 

*1. What do you think about when you hear the term "open source"?*

Open source to me a community that works towards developing software, where anyone can contribute. For me, open source implies software that is free to use by anyone. Because open source is a community, to me that implies a great deal of coordination and collaboration and the need for strict standards to be able to contribute so as to ensure the software is well maintained and functionig. 


*2. What are some advantages of open vs. closed source?*

The biggest advantage of open source is that the software/product is free to use. This is especially important in developing countries where a good part of the population cannot afford to buy properitary software. Moreover, if there is a particular bug in an open source software that I use and I need it fixed, I can try to create a pull request to fix the bug myself. This however, is not a possibility with closed source software, where I can to wait for the company to release a new version with the bugs fixed. 


*3. What are some potential problems with open source?*

Because open source software can be used by anyone, it is possible that some people might use it for illegal purposes. Moreover, because propietary software is paid, companies that deliver the product need to offer top-notch customer support, which may not always be the case with open source. Additionally, most software products have some form of technical debt. However, in proprietary software if the tech-debt gets in the way of some functionality of the product, the company can assign developers to fix the software. However, dealing with tech-debt might be more difficult in open source especially when some repositories have numerous contributors. 

*4. Why did you decide to register for a class about open source software development?*

I've always been fascinated by open source projects and have tried to contribute to a few in small ways. However, I wanted to learn more about how I can contribute on a larger scale to open source projects and also learn some tools I might need in order to do that. 

### Projects

*1. [Visual Studio Code](https://github.com/Microsoft/vscode)*

Visual Studio Code is a source code editor developed by Microsoft. VS Code provides multiple extensions for making source code easier to write and integarte with version control tools. Ever since I discovered VS Code, I have been regularly using the editor to write source code. It's user-friendly interface, debugging and formatting support as well as integartion with Git has made code writing a smoother process for me. An alternative to VS Code is Sublime, which is not open source. 

*2. [Mozilla Firefox](https://github.com/mozilla)*

Mozilla Firefox is an open source web browser. I've been actively using Firefox as a web browser and it's simple interface has made web browsing a fun experience. An alternative to Firefox would be Chrome, which isn't open source. However, there is an open source version of Chrome - Chromium. 

*3. [MongoDB](https://github.com/mongodb/mongo)*

MongoDB is a an open source database software that allows a user to manage data. I have used MongoDB extensively for small personal projects. However, while working in the industry during internships, I found myself using other databases such as PostgreSQL. 

*4. [Linux](https://github.com/torvalds/linux)*

Linux is an open source operating system. I've been using Linux for software development. Linux has helped me use functionality that other OS may not support. However, an alternative to Linux would be Windows OS or MacOS. 

