---
layout: post
title: Week 2
---


## Broswer Extension & Git 

### Contributions

My four major contributions were: 
1. Adding a new feature: The new feature involved updating existing images with funny memes randomly. Everytime the page is a refreshed, a random meme is chosen from a list of downloaded memes and that is used to replace the existing image. 

2. Firefox and Chrome support: I updated the extension to work with both Firefox and Chrome so that a user can have a fun browsing irrespective of the browser. 

3. Updated Icon: Added an icon for our memify extension to ensure it looks good when loaded. 

4. Updated README: Updated the README with some more refined details of our extension and an image of it in action. 

### State of project

*Status*

So we have a working extension that updates images with memes and replaces certain text with memes. We definitely want to add more features and functionality and so in that regards our extension is still work in progress. However, we do have a working implementation. 

*Problems*

While we started out wanting to replace particular text with images of pikachu/some meme, we soon realized that might be a little too ambitous. Therefore, we divided the extention to have two features: an image replacement and text replacement feature. The image replacement feature will replace images with memes/other funny images, while the text replacement feature will replace certain words with others, for instance 'the' with 'MEME'. 

*Timeline*

Yes. We will have a working product by the due date. But as I mentioned earlier, there's more functionality we would like to keep adding to make this extension more fun. 

### Something new about git

I learnt how to link local repositories to the upstream repository. While I have had quite a bit of experience with git, the exercise gave me clarity regarding the relationship between forked repositories, clones repositories and original repositories and how to link them together.
