---
layout: post
title: Week 12
---

# Team Project & Kevin Fleming's Talk

## Kevin Fleming's Talk

Kevin Fleming's talk was both intriguing and informative. What was most interesting about the talk was to learn about how Bloomberg started out using a few open source tools and is now contributing actively to the many tools they use in-house. It was fascinating to see the range of contributions that Bloomberg had from automation and devops to cloud computing and machine learning. I was surprised to learn that it is Bloomberg that advocated to have private variables in TypeScript and JavaScript. Having used JavaScript in the past, I know how massive a change that is to the language. This achievement also goes to show how prominent and deeply embedded Bloomberg is in the open source ecosystem. 

Beyond open source, I really enjoyed listening to Kevin Fleming talk about the work that Bloomberg does, and what he does on a day-to-day basis. The most memorable aspect of the talk was his story about the global outage of Bloomberg terminals that resulted in the U.K government cancelling the sale of its bonds. I hadn't realized the mission-critical nature of the problems that Bloomberg works on, but listening to the speaker, truly gave me a glimpse into how challenging and interesting the work at Bloomberg is. 

## Project Progress
We started the week by creating a documentation-related PR to the main Beagle repository. We encountered a few Github-related issues and while trying to sync out fork and clean up our git history, which had become very messy, I learnt a great deal about version control and Intellij. We managed to get the PR merged by the maintainer, which was a great milestone. Next, we looked through the part of the code we will be modifying to implement our first Event ID and created sample event data to write the new Event ID feature. Before we started coding, we re-setup our git workflow to make the development process cleaner and easier. Later in the week, we were able to generate the first version of the feature implementation. Beagle recently started a Slack channel and so I have joined the channel and have begun communicating more with the community. 

Next week, we plan to finalize and make a PR for the first Event ID feature and also implement the unit test for the same. 



