---
layout: post
title: Week 9
---

# Team Project & Wikipedia

## Team Project Progress

*What have you learnt and what have you done? *

Over the last week and a half, I've learnt a great deal exploring open source projects. I first started out looking for issues on the project that was decided - Scikit Learn. We had selected Scikit Learn because it seemed to be a beginner-friendly community, with thorough labelling and descriptions of issues. However, upon further investigation, I realized that the community was over-active and that definitely made it hard for our group to contribute. Moreover, there were numerous people jumping on issues and making pull requests for issues that had already been assigned. The community therefore didn't seem to be the ideal place for someone looking to learn and make first contributions. 

I then began exploring other projects to contribute to including Astropy, Oppia, OwnCloud, Open Street Maps and Wikimedia projects. The larger projects all seemed to exhibit the same issue of people making pull requests for issues assigned to others. There were a few Wikimedia projects that I was extremely interested in, namely Kiwix and Commons App. The two projects had strict restrictions on issues that newbies can take. First time contributors could only take issues tagged as `beginner-friendly` or `bug`. Since, the repository had many first-time contributors, most of these issues were taken. 

I therefore learnt that beginner-friendly repositories often attract many contributors and can create an over-active community that may ironically lead to an environment not conducive to first-time contributors. Moreover, I learnt to identify issues that I can work on and how to seek community support on these issues. 

Other than looking through numerous repositories for issues to work on, I also installed and setup the repositories to determine how doable the setup is. Other than that, I identified certain issues our team can work on in the project that we finalized. I also set up the project we will be working on for the following weeks. 

*What tasks will you be working on next?*

Since we have finalized our project, next week our team will:

1. Familiarize ourselves with the interface of the project we will be working on
2. Make a list of issues we will be working on. Most of our contributions will be our own suggestions and not existing issues.
3. Prioritize issues based on if they are large contributions or low hanging fruits
4. Try to make contributions to issues that are low hanging fruits

## Wikipedia

*What kind of people contribute to Wikipedia?*

All kinds of people contribute to Wikipedia. Since Wikipedia has a range of ways to contribute, people with expertise in a topic, those looking to fix typos or an individual who knows some information that can be added to a page all contribute to Wikipedia. While there is no type of person who contributes, the people who do share a similar attitude. They all want to share knowledge, information or skills and want to be a part of a larger community that they can contribute in a meaningful way to. Most of the contributors have at some point also been users of Wikipedia and therefore realize the value of their contributions.  

*Do you think you might one day become a regular contributor?*

Yes. In fact, beginning with this course, I hope to contribute regularly to Wikipedia and open source in general. It is fantastic way to learn, expand my skillset and at the same time have a meaningful contribution. 

*How will you select articles to contribute to as part of this class?*

I have thought of several ways I hope to contribute. 

1. I will look through the articles tagged under typo and grammar contributions and will make edits to those 
2. Additionally, a few years ago when I was writing an ethnographic study on a particular tribe, I couldn't find any information, even as a starting point, on Wikipedia. 6 years later today, there is still nothing on that tribe. Since I do know quite a bit about them after having done research on them, I would like to contribute a page about that tribe. 

*Comments on TED Talk*

Wikipedia started out with a very interesting mission of being radical and ensuring free access of an encyclopedia to everyone on the planet. Their mission is extremely fascinating to me since at the time there were only conventional encyclopedias like Britannica. Hence, to come up with the idea of Wikipedia that anyone can edit and have access to must have been mind bending. Moreover, it was interesting to know that Wikipedia is statistically more popular than the New York Times. Given the chaotic model that Wikipedia has not only in terms of who can access and edit it, but also in terms of its organizational structure, it is amazing to see the high quality of content that is produced. 

Wikipedia's neutrality policy seems to have held the organization in good stead. Most people who try to vandalize pages are mostly unsuccessful and this has ensured that Wikipedia remains an encyclopedia of facts rather than a collection of opinions. While the specific Bush-Kerry controversy was outdated as a topic, the essence of Wikipedia's approach to the situation is still relevant. 
