---
layout: post
title: Week 10
---

# Team Project & Thoughts on Readings

## Team Project Progress

*What have you done? What did you learn? What tasks will you be working on next week?*

This week we invested time in setting up the environment for our project and debugging errors that we encountered during the installation. We also developed an action plan on what issues we plan to tackle and how. There are three category of issues we will be working on: 

1. Documentation related errors: We identified some typos and grammatical errors in the documentation that we could help fix
2. Comments on the code: None of the code has any form of comments. We will therefore consult the community and if they agree, add comments to the code
3. Add support for .evtx logs: Because the project is relatively new, there are a lot of feature requests and improvements that can greatly impact the user base. We chose to therefore add support for evtx logs as it will be a doable feature request to accomplish within a few weeks. 

With regards to the feature request we will be working on, we have already asked the community and received approval to work on the feature. 

Beyond that, we raised an issue with the community regarding the installation steps. The community was very responsive in helping us debug errors. The error also helped us identify a few improvements that we can make to the installation guideline. 

I learnt that new projects with smaller communities can be very responsive and allow enough flexibility to new contributors to take the time to understand the code base. 

Next week we plan to spend time understanding the code base and relevant files that we will be contributing to. We will be working on a few documentation related changes and starting work on our main feature. 

## Thoughts on Readings

*Explain (in your own words) the difference between software development following the cathedral model and software development following the bazaar model; which of the two environments do you personally prefer*

*The Cathedral and The Bazaar essay has 19 “lessons”. Pick two of these that you find to be the most intriguing, interesting, telling, or ones that you simply liked. Quote them in your blog and try to explain what they’re supposed to mean.*

"Release early. Release often. And listen to your customers.": This lesson supports the Cathedral model and highlights the idea that early releases may often be buggy, but are a better approach than having one release every six months. Linus' release often philisophy doesn't imply doing quick turn-around incorporating user feedback, but rather scaling to the level of complexity that matches the intensity of the problem. 

"Plan to throw one away; you will, anyhow.": This lesson refers to the idea that the developer doesn't fully understand the problem until they have implemented a solution once. They second time maybe they will do it right. Hence, the first iteration is almost always discarded and so a developer must be prepared to reqrite at least once. 



*Comment on the discussion of free vs. open, in what way are the similar and how are they different?*

Free and open source software defer mainly on the grounds of principle. While free software campaigns mainly for freedom for users of computing, open source software emerged for a practical advantage. When not all users of the free software movement could agree on the principles, they branched out into the 'open source' community. However, later the two became associated with a similar philosophy. Yet, most discussions of open source doesn't hold any ethical ground of 'right' and 'wrong'. 

There is however, a great overlap between pure open source enthusiasts who consider open source software to also be free software. Yet, this is not a requirement of OSS and that's where the two communities diverge. 
