---
layout: post
title: Week 5
---

# License, Installation & Presentation


## License
---
#### Explain the terms of the license for [VSCode](https://github.com/Microsoft/vscode/blob/master/LICENSE.txt)

The VSCode repository includes an MIT license. The license allows any individual to use, copy, merge, modify, publish, distribute, sublicense and/or sell the software without any form of restriction. The only condition of the license is that the individual using the code must include the same terms of the license in their copy of the code. 

Additionally, the license doesn't hold the authors of the software liable for any form of damage arising from or related to the software. 


## Installation
---
#### Experience of installing abd building VSCode

VSCode is a an extremely massive repository. Though the upside of such a repository is that the installation guidelines are very thorough, the downside is that there are numerous dependencies that need to be installed to be able to build the project. 

I first began by cloning the repository and then following the list of dependencies I had to download - Node.JS, C/C++ compiler tool chain, Yarn, Python. Once I had all the prerequistes, I ran the the command to build the repository. However, the command resulted in an error message of missing dependencies - `gulp-watch`. I tried to resolve the error by following the link to VSCode's StackOverflow site, however, I didn't find much help there. I then did some research on the error and realized that I needed to install npm globally through `npm install -g`. Once I did that, I still had trouble running the build command. This time the dependency wasn't available to the git repository. Through research I realized that I needed to link my local repository to the npm package through `npm link vscode`. Once, I had linked the npm modules, I was able to build and run the code. 

#### Any improvements to the guidelines?
The entire process was quite time consuming and required me to research about how to install various dependencies of the project. The errors that I encountered in the process were not neccesarily related to building vscode, but were related to the dependencies instead. Hence, it's difficult to recommend changes to the VSCode installation guidelines as they are already very detailed and thorough, but only to the extent of installing VSCode, not the dependencies -including which might be quite a stretch.   



## Reflection on presentation 
---
#### Learnings from the presentation
This was my second time listening to a presentation by Christos and I enjoyed it as much as my first time. It was interesting to learn about the various projects that The Mozilla Foundation is working on such as Firefox Reality, Facebook Container, and Project Things. In fact, I went back and read some of the articles that Christmos alluded to such as the one on Hacking the STEM education, which was very interesting. Moreover, I had the chance to learn about some of the student initiatives at Mozilla, which I wish I had known earlier!

#### Thoughts on Mozilla's philosophy
Mozilla's philosophy is definitely very interesting. I really like their idea of placing the user first. However, their approach is very different from Amazon, which is another company that places the user first. While it is great to think of a company that wants to provide free software for users or block ads tracking, I was curious about the sustainability of such a business and how the Foundation keep itself running. So I looked up the business model of Mozilla and found that they're a not-for-profit organization (also what Christos mentioned), and a majority of their revenues come from royalties paid to the browser by search engines. While the business model is definitely sustainable, I still wonder whether the revenue is sufficient for Mozilla and provide *quality* software and remain competitive in a domain where they compete with companies such as Google. 

