---
layout: post
title: Week 11
---

# Team Project & Thoughts on Readings

## Cathedral and the Bazaar

*1. Blog about at least two of the three lessons from The Cathedral and the Bazaar essay listed below (what do you think they mean and what do you think about them)*

#### Lesson 1: "Perfection (in design) is achieved not when there is nothing more to add, but rather when there is nothing more to take away."

This lesson highlights the idea that code can never reach a state where there is nothing more to add. Any product, software, services, application will always have more features to add, more enhancements to make. However, a better measure of perfection in code is when it gets simpler and better. Better here can be interpreted to mean both for the developer in terms of readability, portability etc. and also for the user as fewer bugs, a better interface so on. Hence, perfect code is not a state, but rather the direction of the code. If the code is getting better and less complex it is headed in the direction of perfection. 

I definitely agree with the lesson above. And while some may use maturity of a product as implying perfection, that may not always be true. Other than a few small projects, most software is always work in progress. Hence, it is important to change the measure of perfection for code rather than make it an unattainable goal for the team. 

#### Lesson 2: "Often, the most striking and innovative solutions come from realizing that your concept of the problem was wrong."

The lesson suggests that a good solution emerges from a solid understanding of the problem. This relates to another lesson in the book: "Plan to throw one away; you will, anyhow". Both the lessons seem to imply the same thing. It often takes a few iterations and possibly even an implementation to fully understand the problem at hand. Often times, a team believes they understand the problem and set out to solve it, only to realize they were solving the wrong one. 

The lesson is extremely relatable to me. I have often worked on projects and products during my internship where we set out to implement a feature only to realize that we weren't solving the right issue. That is the essence of the software development lifecycle and the iterative development approach. 

*2. Talk about one of the lessons from The Cathedral and the Bazaar essay that you liked the most and that resonated with you the most (why is it important to you)*

#### Lesson: If you have the right attitude, interesting problems will find you.

The essence of this lesson is that if one is interested in a particular domain, seeks out opportunities and is passionate about the work they do, interesting problems will come to them through people and teams who notice the enthusiasm. This lesson is very similar to a few others in the essay and they all deeply resonate with me because the crux of what they intend to say is the same. The reason these lessons dovetail my thoughts is that once I realized my passion for tech and it became an integral part of my life, I developed a deep passion for it. Soon I noticed many interesting challenges I could work on through internships, conferences, personal project etc. I never find myself at a loss for interesting problems around me. A few of my friends who are also passionate about tech share the same story. 

## Project

*What have you done, what did you learn and what are the tasks that you will be working on next week?*

This week I first started by setting up my GitHub workflow. I identified documentation-related issues in the README.md file such spelling and grammatical errors. I also looked through some past PRs and realized the installation guide was outdated. I then filed an issue to fix it and asked the maintainer to assign it to me. I then created PRs to fix the documentation issues to our organization repository. We will submit our larger PR as a team to the main repository soon. 

As a team we looked through Windows Security Events list and identified three security events that we would like to add support for in the coming weeks. We looked into the code base for the existing Event IDs to understand how to implement new ones. We also understood how tests are set up for the existing ID. We looked through Windows Event Viewer logs to understand different Event IDs and how they work.

I learnt a lot about Event IDs and what some of them mean. Also, initially we had set up our GitHub workflow such that each member would have a fork of the repository in the OSSD organization and then make a PR to it. We would then make a larger PR to the original repository. However, we learnt that synchronizing the upstream will be quite a task. Hence, we decided to switch to creating branches rather than forks. 

Next week our first task will be to create the documentation-related PR to the main repository. We will then reset our GitHub workflow and start implementing the function for the first Event ID in our list. 
